# SilverbirdWorkOrderAssigner
A work order algorithm that takes input as in a form of a table (.xlsx file) and assigns work based on worker certification, the priority of tasks. It notifies the workers of their next job dynamically as when data is queried from a new file, it automatically sends a text message through the Twilio API and stores the work assigned in a MongoDB so that its easily accessible in order to keep track of work assigned, completed, etc. Using the Twilio API, if you have the worker's phone numbers, you can easily send them a text message concerning the work that they have to do next. MongoDB also makes it really useful to store data over the cloud so that you don't need a physical copy every time you want to keep track of your workers. In fact, you only require a "physical" copy on your computer if you're inputting new data into either the Work Order database or any of the other ones. This code lacks a frontend as it doesn't really have a need for one, as it would further lengthen the runtime of the code when adding data and since that everything that a company would store about their worker's locations, credentials, and certifications is stored over the cloud and notifications are sent immediately in the form of text messages.

- [x] Algorithm that assigns work to company workers
- [x] Backend thats fully functional and stores all the necessary data in a database
- [x] Notifies the workers of their work orders
- [ ] Functional frontend that makes for a ease of access for workers to keep track of their work orders

# How to run
Make sure to have maven installed. Download pom.xml, RiceHackathonFile.xlsx, and schedule.java as those are all the files you need to run the program. Make sure if you're going to download the files to your own database, change the default code where it accesses the MongoDB database to your own credentials and also change the Twilio AUTH_ID and AUTH_TKN as those are only for testing purposes. If using the code as is, without any of the aforementioned changes, just run the code and it can output either to console or a specified phone number if you paid for Twilio on line 236. I also print out the message that it would text the number just for ease of access. If you are changing the code such as the database, make sure to uncomment the for loop in main as it will input all the necessary data into your version of MongoDB and finish doing what it's supposed to.
